## Summary  
On April 8th, between 10am and 11am, all requests to create pizzas failed. This led to user-end failuers,
as well as a complete halt in revenue for JWT Pizza. This was detected by the Grafana metrics dashboard,
made particularly obvious by the complete fall-off of revenue. This event completely disabled JWT Pizza's
ability to create pizzas from the pizza factory, preventing all users from successfully order any pizzas
during the affected time period.  

## Detection  
The team noticed the phenomenon at approximately 10:40am. The incident notification system failed to
notify the team of this incident. However, team members noticed the phenomenon through regular review
of the Grafana metrics dashboard. The notification system failure is due to its lack of configuration
for revenue and percentage of failed pizza requests. The team initially noticed a unique pattern
caused by site traffic, then connected the irregular traffic to the total drop in revenue. The failing
revenue led the team to locate error logs indicating that requests to the pizza factory were failing.

## Impact  
Internal users (developers, admin responsibilities, etc.) were not affected by this incident. However,
every user that ordered a pizza during this time period was negatively affected. This raised at least
a dozen support cases.  

## Timeline  
*(All time are Mountain-Standard Time)*  
10:00 - users begin noticing failed pizza orders  
10:40 - technical team notices irregularities in traffic and pizza orders  
10:45 - technical team identifies suspended revenue as a result of the incident
10:50 - after reviewing log, the technical team identfied the error messages produced from the
pizza factory  
10:55 - technical team contacts the pizza factory with error codes, pizza factory issues are
resolved, and pizza orders returned to normal operations. Revenue numbers began to recover at
this point.  

## Response  
Team members immediately began examining metrics and logs until the problem was identified.
Reaching out to the pizza factory was the next response after identifying the source of the issue.  

## Root cause  
No reduntant measures had been added to the system that allowed JWT Pizza to still process orders
in the case of an endpoint failure with the pizza factory. This lack of perparation caused the
outage to completely disable the pizza ordering features.  

## Resolution  
By contacting the pizza factory with the correct error codes, the service was able to return to normal.  

## Prevention  
Establish fall-back routines with the pizza factory for redundancy. Establish workflows that allow pizza
orders to be queued in memory until contact with the pizza factory can be returned to normal. This root
cause could also have caused high latency in JWT Pizza requests.  

## Action Items  
- Implement fallback routine for pizza factory endpoints.  
- Implement queueing routine so that pizza orders are not lost when pizza factory calls fail  
- Refactor Grafana alerting to notify the team of high request failure rates and vanishing revenue.  